alright, thanks x, and thanks to everyone here for listening into my
presentation. i'm alan. i've been working here at clearwater analytics for
about 3 years now. i've been using linux for about 10 years, and i'm obsessed
with the command line.

this presentation will be a little different than what you may be used to
because the entire presentation will be completely contained within a command
line type environment. and when i say everything, i mean everything. including
the presentation sofware i use and gifs.

the commandline is the title of my presentation. i'm going to be covering a lot
of content in the next 40 minutes or so. if you feel lost, we'll have a few
questions at the end, you can always rewatch this presentation online, and i
have a keylogger running at the bottom right of the screen.

by the end of this presentation i hope you're motivated to use the commandline
a little bit more than you currently do as part of your daily workflow.

from here, i'll give you a quick history lesson, then you can watch me run a
bunch of random commands. if we're lucky, nothing will go wrong, so let's get
started.

for the hardware related history of the command line, i'd argue that it all
begins with the invention of teleprinters.

a teleprinter was a typewriter like device, popular in the early 1900s, that
could both send and receive telegraph messages. for example a person could type
up a message on a teleprinter and when they send it, the receiving teleprinter
would automatically type that same message out to a piece of paper.

computers emerged around the 1950s. as computers improved, many people switched
from using punch cards to using teleprinters to interact with computers.
computer terminals later came along with a few benefits to teleprinters
including, being faster, being quieter, and of course making the world greener
by using less paper. computer terminals improved in the 70s with colors and
a movable cursor. guis started taking over in the 80s. and today we use
terminal emulator programs to access the command line.

for the software related history of the command line, i'd argue that it all
begins with the implementation of time sharing.

time sharing made it possible for multiple users to use one computer at the
same time by having the computer constantly switch between tasks. this means
that expensive computers were now both easier to use and more accessible.

in 1964 a large group of researchers spanning multiple institutions started
working on a revolutionary operating system called multics. some of those
researchers from at&t's bell labs abandoned the multics project because they
felt like the project was overly complex. and they started a much smaller
operating system project called unix. the command line we have today comes from
unix and many of the tools that were available to early versions of unix are
still available and useful today.

unix was distributed to various institutions throughout the 70s and 80s. linux
started becoming popular in the 90s. and today, almost anyone in the world can
access a unix command line if they really want to.

with that said, let's start actually using the command line.
